INTRODUCTION

FriCAS is a free, advanced computer algebra system (CAS) capable of
doing advanced computational mathematics, including algebra and
calculus. FriCAS contains some of the most comprehensive and robust
implementations of difficult mathematical algorithms, such as the
Risch algorithm for computing symbolic integrals. FriCAS, with its
ancestor Axiom, has been in development for over 50 years.

FriCAS supports both interactive and "batch-mode" use. By default, the
FriCAS executable will start the user in an interactive shell. In this
shell, we may load Spad scripts, or we can do computations
directly. For example, here is the computation of a simple integral
from the shell:


    (1) -> integrate(1/sqrt(1+%e^x),x)

                   +-------+             +-------+
                   |  x                  |  x
       (1)  - log(\|%e  + 1  + 1) + log(\|%e  + 1  - 1)


Here, the '(1)' indicates it's the first prompt and corresponding
result.

FriCAS implements a high-level, strongly typed programming language
called "Spad", which is particularly suitable for representing
different mathematical structures. Most of the computer algebra code
is thus written in Spad. (The Spad compiler itself is written in
Common Lisp, and in fact, Spad gets compiled to Common Lisp. So it is
very easy to use Lisp and Spad together.)


BUILDING AND INSTALLATION

For installation instructions see INSTALL.


FRICAS AND AXIOM

FriCAS is a fork of the Axiom computer algebra system. A significant
goal of FriCAS was/is to increase the maintainability of the
system. FriCAS has been significantly restructured compared to Axiom
so as to allow

    - Simpler development. Most files are "just" ordinary source code.

    - Portability. FriCAS has virtually no dependencies (except for
      the requisite Lisp and C compilers), and several Common Lisp
      implementations are supported.

    - Ease of building. Around one person-year of effort has been put
      into making Axiom relatively painless to build on ordinary UNIX
      systems.

In addition to various improvements compared to Axiom, FriCAS has also
been significantly cleaned up. Lots of dead and unused code has been
removed.


CONTRIBUTING

FriCAS is developed on GitHub with git.

    https://github.com/fricas/fricas

To contribute to FriCAS, you are welcome to submit a pull request, and
the FriCAS maintainers will make their best effort to review the
contribution and include it.

If you are interested in making substantial *modifications* to FriCAS,
we recommend you file an issue ticket at this link first, describing
the issue you'd like to solve, so that other FriCAS developers can
chime in.

    https://github.com/fricas/fricas/issues

The FriCAS project is happy to accept contibutions in all forms, but
the maintainers are particularly interested in the following:

    - Continuing structural improvements.

    - Making it easier for external programs to interface with FriCAS.

    - Developing a better user interface.

    - Supporting the use of external mathematical routines from Spad.

    - Improving the Spad compiler.

    - Adding new mathematical structures and algorithms.

If you make changes to the source code, be sure to run

    make check

to run the unit tests. Further details can be found in the INSTALL
file.